[TT-10255] Error Customisation update (#2172)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: api-management/custom-error-responses.mdx

The table below summarizes the key differences:

| | Authentication Error Configuration | Response Body Overrides | Error Overrides |
|---|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| Available since | Early versions | v2.2 | v5.13.0 |
| Configuration location | `tyk.conf` | Template files in `templates/` | `tyk.conf` and/or API definition |
| Scope | All APIs | All APIs | All APIs or per-API |
| Customize status code | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Customize message string | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Customize body format | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Customize upstream errors | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Customize by error type | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |

For new API deployments, we strongly recommend that you use **Error Overrides** to customize error responses. Authentication Error Configuration and Response Body Overrides remain fully supported for backward compatibility.

### How the Mechanisms Interact

> The three error customization mechanisms can be implemented together. We don't recommend this, now that Error Overrides provides full customization, however it is important to understand how they will interact if more than one is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The three error customization mechanisms can be implemented together. **We don't recommend this**, now that Error Overrides provides full customization, however it is important to understand how they will interact if more than one is deployed.
```

<Warning>
`bodyField`/`bodyValue` is not evaluated when matching Gateway-generated errors. A `4xx` rule that sets only body criteria, with no `flag` or `messagePattern`, will match all Gateway-generated errors of that status code, not just upstream responses.
</Warning>

<Note>
When `messagePattern` or `bodyField`/`bodyValue` are used to match upstream responses, Tyk reads up to 4 KB of the response body. Content beyond 4 KB is not evaluated. If no match is found, the original response body is passed through unchanged.
</Note>

### Response Customization

The response object defines what Tyk returns to the client when a rule matches (or fires). *All fields are optional*: provide any combination to achieve the override you need.

**`statusCode`**: (`status_code` in Tyk Classic and `tyk.conf`)
- This is the HTTP status code to return to the client.
- Any valid HTTP status code is accepted.
- If omitted, the original error status code is preserved.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Available as `{{.statusCode}}` in [Go Template Syntax](#go-template-syntax) used in `body` or `template`.

```

**`headers`**:
- A JSON object of key-value string pairs to set on the response. These are merged into the existing response headers; any key you specify sets or overrides that header while all other headers remain intact.
 - If omitted, no additional headers are set.
- To remove a header, include it in `headers` with an empty value.
- Note that the `X-Generator` header cannot be removed via override rules; suppress it globally using [`hide_generator_header`](/tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#hide_generator_header).

**`message`**:
- The error message text.

> - Available as `{{.Message}}` in template bodies (see [Go Template Syntax](#go-template-syntax)).

Author: ```suggestion
- Available as `{{.Message}}` in [Go Template Syntax](#go-template-syntax) used in `body` or `template`.
```

> - If omitted, `{{.Message}}` resolves to the original Tyk error message for the condition.

Reviewer 2: Actually for security reasons we avoided access to the original error message from the template or body response config so if omitted it won't resolve to the original tyk error message

Author: ```suggestion
- If omitted, `{{.Message}}` resolves to an empty string in the `body` or `template`.
```

- If `body` is set, `template` is ignored.

**`template`**:
- The base filename (without extension) of a file in the Gateway's `templates/` directory.
- The file content is used as the response body, written verbatim to the client.
- Tyk appends `.json` or `.xml` to the base filename based on the `Content-Type` of the original request.
    - For example, `"my_error"` resolves to `templates/my_error.json` for JSON requests and `templates/my_error.xml` for XML requests.
- Use `template` as an alternative to `body` when the template body is large or shared across multiple rules.

#### Partial Override

If neither `body` nor `template` is set, the rule is a partial override as it does not contain any response body content. Tyk applies the `statusCode` and `message` from the matching rule. Use this when you want to change the status code or message while retaining the existing body format.

<Note>
A partial override will pass through the legacy template system, which may format the response body. Be careful if you have both Error Overrides and [Response Body Overrides](#response-body-overrides) configured to avoid unintended behavior.
</Note>

#### XML Clients

> Inline `body` overrides are written verbatim **regardless of the `Content-Type` of the original request**. To serve XML to XML clients using an inline body, ensure that the `body` contains XML formatted content. If using `template`, then ensure you provide a `.xml` file variant, as Tyk will select that given `Content-Type: "xml"` in the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inline `body` overrides are written verbatim **regardless of the `Content-Type` of the original request**. To serve XML to XML clients using an inline body, ensure that the `body` contains XML formatted content. If using `template`, then ensure you provide a `.xml` file variant, as Tyk will select that given `Content-Type: "application/xml"` in the request.
```

The table below summarizes the key differences:

| | Authentication Error Configuration | Response Body Overrides | Error Overrides |
|---|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| Available since | Early versions | v2.2 | v5.13.0 |
| Configuration location | `tyk.conf` | Template files in `templates/` | `tyk.conf` and/or API definition |
| Scope | All APIs | All APIs | All APIs or per-API |
| Customize status code | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Customize message string | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Customize body format | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Customize upstream errors | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Customize by error type | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |

For new API deployments, we strongly recommend that you use **Error Overrides** to customize error responses. Authentication Error Configuration and Response Body Overrides remain fully supported for backward compatibility.

### How the Mechanisms Interact

The three error customization mechanisms can be implemented together. **We don't recommend this**, now that Error Overrides provides full customization, however it is important to understand how they will interact if more than one is deployed.

> **DIAGRAM PLACEHOLDER**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{/* DIAGRAM PLACEHOLDER */}
```

{/*
Suggested diagram: flowchart with these steps:
1. Gateway starts up -> Authentication Error Configuration remaps default auth/OAuth status codes and messages
2. Request arrives and error occurs
3. Error Overrides evaluated -> if a matching rule provides a complete body, return response immediately (end)
4. If no complete body from Error Overrides -> Response Body Overrides format the body
5. HTTP response sent to client
*/}

> Three points about the sequence may not be obvious from the diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{/* Three points about the sequence may not be obvious from the diagram: */}
```
